Thinking, F ast and Slow
D.Kahneman
February 12-13, 2014
Human beings are hardly rational economical agents, at leas t they do not comply
with the classical economical theories of economic transac tions. They do not formulate
utility functions, the pursuit of which they are expected to conduct with relentlessness
and consistency. This is hardly a surprising insight but one which most people, except
possibly economical model builders, instinctively hold. O n the other hand every model by
necessity involves drastic simpliﬁcations, in order to be m anageable and clearly show the
salient features. To abandon a simple model which has shown i tself useful only makes sense
when its predictions start to diverge too much from real life . This is a book addressed
to a general public, and thus the author, a psychologist turn ed economist, does not make
any attempt to show how classical economical models fail and how they can be suitably
modiﬁed, but constricts himself to elaborate on the obvious shortcomings, which to most
readers must be intuitively obvious and hence gratifying, a s man merely as a rational agent
is to most of us seen as unnecessarily restrictive, with the i mplications that any theories
that neglect those, must by necessity be radically ﬂawed. Th e author is careful to point
out that he does not make a claim for the irrationality of man, on the contrary, without
some rationality assumptions, predictions become impossi ble, only that he wants to make
the notion of human rationality more nuanced, pointing out i ts limits. The author shares
with most academic economists a sanguine belief in the possi bility of quantization in the
social world, thus not doubting its ontological aspect, onl y its present epistemology.
The starting point, which provides the title of the book, is t he distinction between
fast and slow thinking, which roughly corresponds to the bas ic division between the sub-
conscious and conscious pioneered by the nowadays discount ed Freud 1. We all have an
uncanny ability to recognize faces, something which so far h as not been possible to simu-
late on a computer in spite of its superior computing power. W e do so very quickly and
with no apparent eﬀort in spite of all the computation that mu st be involved. Furthermore
the act is not deliberate but involuntary and automatic. We c annot will ourselves not to
recognize a well-known face. Those cognitive gifts are give n to us by God to serve us well
in our daily life. Although nowadays we prefer to formulate i t in terms of natural selection
and survival (and hence reproductive) advantages. Unless p ursued, which it seldom is,
the latter formulation does not really carry much more illum ination than the classical.
Similar to those are our abilities to eﬀortlessly retrieve a lot of diﬀerent facts, such as that
Paris is the capital of France, or vocabularies of languages we speak with mindless ﬂuency.
Opposed to the automatic and almost instantaneous thinking is the slow and laborious
1 It is noteworthy that one of the blurbs printed on the back cover ’As Copernicus re moved the Earth
from the centre of the universe and Darwin knocked humans oﬀ their biological perch, Kahneman has shown
that we are not the paragons of reason we assume ourselves to be’ which is a co nscious or subconscious
paraphrase of how Freud himself characterized his work.
1
one, which involves a lot of eﬀort, which actually shows deﬁn ite physiological symptoms
in terms of dilations or pupils, increases in heart rates and blood pressures, and hence
actually allows some objective quantitative measures. Thi s kind of thinking is conscious
and craves attention and deliberation and excludes other ki nds of thinking. The typical
example is making a standardized computation in your head, i nvolving keeping items in
your working memory. When standardized you can easily gauge limits to your cognitive
ability. Most people can with eﬀort multiply two two-digit n umbers but are unable to
multiply two three digit numbers 2 .
Most of our lives are spent in a default mood, all the decision s that are required are
supplied by habits, once in a while there is an emergency, the senses realize it quickly
and the fast thinking supplies an automated and instant resp onse which in most cases is
fully adequate. In this sense we do not depart from animals in general. However, our
fast thinking is not always appropriate, and then the slow th inking takes over, but only
reluctantly so, as it is always associated with a large eﬀort (and, one surmises, depletion
of energy). If a ready answer is supplied it often takes an eﬀo rt to question it 3 Now our
God-given intuitions are not always perfect. And here, we do encounter the ﬁrst diﬀerence
between God and Natural Selection. We are not supposed to que stion the perfection of
God, but we are encouraged to explore the failings of Natural Selection.
The ﬁrst thing to remember that there are too many contingenc ies in life, especially
the social life of humans, to have precedents in the developm ent of the human race, or
for that matter to be encodiﬁable in genes. What may be pre-pr ogrammed, so to speak,
are certain tendencies to come to conclusions of a speedy jud ging processes, known as
the gut feeling. The fallacies of our fast thinking, accordi ng to the author, is that the
fast survival process only looks at the information at hand a nd does not actively look for
additional information 4. Furthermore it weighs the diﬀerent components, not accord ing
to their objective importance, but how vividly they appear t o the mind. Finally there is a
premium on presenting a coherent and logically structured n arrative, because as humans
we have a propensity for stories, and are very good at remembe ring them, as the diﬀerent
components of it are tied together by logic and association 5. What comes through to the
mind by such natural intuition is compelling. But as Popper r eminds us, conviction is
a subjective feeling and should not be confused with truth. I t takes a lot to challenge
2 The author provides as a generic example 17 × 24 when I attacked it I thought at ﬁrst of doubling
the ﬁrst factor successively, then I realized that I should rewrite it as (17 × 3) × 8 and the task becomes
trivial. I guess this was not intended by the author. To what kind of thinking doe s this exploration belong
to? It was not painful, yet clearly it usurped my attention.
3 As an example. Two people split $1.10, one picks a dollar more than the ot her, how do they split it.
An instantaneous answer presents itself, namely $1 and $0.1 those are ob viously false, yet I fell into the
trap. Why? Lazy, and the question did not interest me in the least. Had it been A is ten years older than
B, their total age is 44, I would not have ﬂoundered.
4 Referred to as WYSIATI meaning ’what you see is all there is’
5 This is why a mathematician can recall a complicated proof, not verbati m of course, but as a story.
Or why a genial musician like Mozart, can recall, verbatim in fact, a piece of music, only heard once. Or
one, supposes, a chess master, recalling a position by a mere glance, se eing in it a story poignant with
possibilities
2
such an emotionally charged conviction, and nothing short o f a brutal disappointment of
expectation will do it. Those propensities of the human intu ition are responsible for the
egregious errors of applying and estimating probabilities which people, even those suitably
educated, come prey to. To that we will return.
To counter the failings of human judgement it is, the author p oints out, important
to have some mechanical algorithm that does the job. Such a st ratagem goes against the
grain of most people. How can a mindless algorithm which ofte n is crude and based on
inaccurate assumptions, seriously compete with human expe rience and that extra-sensory
sense that intuition is supposed to represent. (In another a ge one could have referred to
it as divine inspiration, without blushing. Now people woul d blush at such terminology,
but what they are suggesting does not really diﬀer.) The adva ntages of the algorithmic
approach is that 1) it works against the bias of readily avail able information and forces
you to collect more of what is relevant to the case. 2) By using some mindless formula
you check against the tendency to rely on subjective weights and ﬁnally 3) by getting a
number or some such thing, you guard against the seduction of constructing an attractive
narrative. There are also of course obvious disadvantages, but those are so obvious that
they need not be spelled out. As an example the author cites th ree components which
come into play when you are going to predict the quality of a gi ven vintage of wine, all
simply referring to the weather. The amount of precipitatio n in the fall and spring and
the average temperature of the latter. In particular tastin g the wine does not enter at
all into consideration, something which sticks in the eye to the classical wine connoisseur.
However, this simple scheme, seems superior to the regular m ethods. Whether this is true
or not, we simply have to take the word of the author, there bei ng no other alternative,
save an investigation of your own. In particular the stratag em is very controversial in the
clinical setting. But once again we have to that the authors w ord for it, in studies made, the
diagnostic precision of clinicians (as testiﬁed by subsequ ent autopsies?) is discouragingly
low, and simple algorithms do better. In fact in modern medic ine quantitated test play a
greater and greater role, and the old wisdom of the family doc tor with his holistic approach
of taking in the whole person, is fading into the remembrance of quaint practices.
Now, the disparagement of intuition caused a lot of controversy, and rather to engage in
pungent but eventually fruitless polemics the author chose to invite his antagonist in a joint
exploration that eventually led to some joint papers and, on e assumes, increased wisdom 6.
The compromise they hammered out, was that in some instances there is something to be
called professional intuition, but it needs to be honed duri ng a long time, with constant
opportunity to more or less instantaneous feedback to small piecemeal changes. Learning
to drive a car and bicycle are examples of this, when you can ﬁn e-tune the honing of your
skill. But also in more conceptual ways, not just pertaining to your motor-abilities, it may
work and its exploitation is basically that of recognition. A clinician does not necessarily
get the prompt feedback on his pronouncements, and when give n feedback it will be on the
6 Popper points out the importance of discussing with people opposed to yo ur views. The experience
is not pleasant, but can be made tolerable with some practice, but is inevit ably mutually beneﬁcial, as
long as your object is not to win the argument, but to take in points of vi ew of the other and acknowledge
weaknesses in your own reasoning and thus be motivated to strengthen your own arguments and more
clearly present you own point of view.
3
complex judgement itself, not pieces thereof. This also ind icates that the human intuition
may very well be in the nature of a reﬁned algorithm after all, the workings of which have
been modiﬁed during an extended exposure to the real world. I n short a matter of trial
and error, the mode of operation of evolution.
There are many examples of where experts are much in demand, s uch as in the predic-
tion of political development (will there be a war? Who will b e elected President), where
the connection between claiming and testing is too extended in time and too intermittent
to either inﬂuence the expert beneﬁcially or engage the crit ical intelligence of the observer.
The author has in minds the various pundits in political scie nce, whose attractiveness does
not depend on the accuracy of their predictions but with the a brasiveness and conﬁdence
they can deliver their opinions with. Other examples are ﬁna ncial experts on the stock
market whose performances are disappointingly weak when ch ecked against the future, in
fact seldom more eﬃcient than the random advice a monkey coul d have supplied throwing
darts on a board. This does not mean that one cannot make a kill ing on the stock mar-
ket beyond pure luck. Large investors with access to inside i nformation and big enough
that there actions actually have an impact on the market, thu s allowing for a measure of
control, but an individual player, looking for trends, is in a position no better than the
hapless gambler by the casino. The house always has the upper hand. And ﬁnally, it is
not at all clear how much eﬀect a CEO has on his company, what is due to skill and what
is due to pure luck, in that his position is very similar to a ge neral in a battle, he may be
an inspiration, but the actual dynamics on a battle ﬁeld foll ows a logic of its own when
set free. But of course, clinician, political pundits, and ﬁ nancial advisors have more than
a vested interest in keeping up the illusion.
The notion of probability is a vague human notion connected t o possibility, plausibility
and likelihood and a hoist of related concepts. It has a purel y formal deﬁnition, due
to Kolomogorov, which does not accord exactly with the intui tion. It is an example
of the traditional phenomenon that a mathematical model is i mposed on a social and
psychological reality. The relentless logic of the mathema tics will eventually diverge from
the human reality, which is then dismissed as illogical. The re is a certain element of truth to
that, but it is a subtle question having to do with the eﬀectiv eness of mathematics in non-
physical sciences, in which it does not appear unreasonable , although hardly reasonable
either. In the Kolomogorovian sense, given a population of p individuals of type A and q
individuals of type B, one may say that the probability of an i ndividual being of type A
is p/p + q nothing more nothing less. To speak about the individual wit hout specifying
of what type is a very convenient ﬁction, but one should not fo rget that it means nothing
more than in the given population there are p individuals of o ne sort and q of the other 7.
One could develop a mathematical theory of probability with out even ever mentioning
probability. It would be artiﬁcial, because it is convenien t for the way we reason to think
in terms of probabilities. But the notion is specious and sed uces us into thinking that one
can speak about the probability of an event without even spec ifying the context, without
which a deﬁnition cannot be made. Hence such questions as wha t is the probability that
7 Given a population space, or more generally a space of outcomes, one may think of derives spaces,
the objects of which are combinations of the basic objects, so called v irtual objects. Those can easily
become very large and require a great deal of combinatorial ingenuity to com pute.
4
human intelligence arouse on Earth, or why I met my wife, whic h can be given many
diﬀerent answers depending on the particular context one de ems pertinent.
Now when it comes to events the mind is not able to give an objec tive assessment.
Events which loom large and vivid in the imagination easily u surps far more prominence
than warranted. As I point out, if plane crashes were more com mon, people may be
less worried about ﬂying. Now plane crashes are spectacular events, because they are so
dramatic and rare, that they engage the imagination and acqu ire thereby a high degree of
plausibility (in fact what is more plausible, a plane that st ays up in the air, or one that
crashes to the ground?) which is easily confounded with proba bility. This is the basis of
terrorism, which is about creating the greatest fear with a m inimum of casualties 8. On
the other hand common dangers may be downplayed as being too m undane. Often there
is no awareness of dangers at all, or the dangers that actuall y exist are seen as irrelevant
to your case. In fact, the latter is indicative of a state of mi nd referred to by the author
as the inside view. We tend to experience life from the inside and seldom take an external
point of view, meaning seeing ourselves as mere actors no diﬀ erent from others. In the
classical Indian epics, it is pointed out that the most remar kable thing is the propensity of
people to view themselves as immortal in spite of all the evid ence of people around them
coming to grief. When you are engaged in a project, you see it a s something unique, and
you gauge its progress not by comparison with other similar v entures, of which you most
likely not only are unaware but have no desire to ﬁnd out, but w ith internal yardsticks.
This makes for optimism, when a rational assessment would ha ve proscribed caution, if
not downright pessimism. Most people starting businesses t ake on a very sanguine point
of view, when the facts should be staring them in the eye. On th e other hand, what is
wrong with optimism? If sperms would know of the odds against their success, surely
none of them would embark on the epic journey of fertilizatio n? Many of us believe that
if we are not immortal nevertheless we have a very good shot at living to a mature old
age, especially as we most of the time feel in good health and h ave no intrinsic reason to
conclude that the normal state of aﬀairs will come to an end, a fter all normality is what
we are primed to expect. Similar sentiments may inﬂuence our expectations of becoming
rich and famous, it happens to other people why not to me, and b esides there seem once
again to be no compelling intrinsic reason why our expectati ons should be stymied. And
after all, what is wrong with such rosy fantasies? Life is har d and brutal, why not try to
soften it? And as with posthumous fame, disappointment is no t to be experienced.
In addition to being unaware of the baselines, as the author e xpresses it, even when
we are, we are slow to act on it appropriately. When told that 8 0 percent of all the cabs
in a city are blue, we are likely to ignore this when being told that a cab involved in an
accident was yellow with 80 percent certainty. However, if w e instead are informed that
80 percent of all cab accidents involve drivers in blue cabs, we certainly will take that
into account. This statistics somehow indicate an active ag ent, while mere numbers and
frequencies seem inert and passive and thus not worthy of our attention.
The very notion of probability is also, for similar reason, v ague in the minds of people,
8 The author remarks correctly, that even at the height of suicide bombings in I srael, they never
surpassed the level of normal traﬃc accidents. He found himself un at ease w hile driving behind a bus,
not necessarily because he seriously
5
even those who are trained. At least it does not easily comply to the formal strictures
imposed by Kolmogorov. When told that a certain woman (incid entally called Linda) is
an active feminist most people will consider her more likely to be a feminist bank teller
than just a bank teller, although from a strictly logical poi nt of view the latter includes the
former, and thus tautologically becomes more probable. Eve n Stephen J. Gould admits
to the error, as relayed by the author, or at least ﬁnding hims elf very much seduced by
a possibility that his logical mind rejects as nonsense. But is it so surprising after all,
the intuitive notion of probability is an active one, and if y ou are asked to rate diﬀerent
occupational possibilities for a character you have seen de scribed, you naturally looks for
the most likely option, among those you tend to think are mutu ally exclusive. Thus it is
not unnatural that you will pick the option, in which the appe arance of your character
seems most likely, in the sense that would you pick a random ex ample from it, chances are
the greatest that you will hit the target. In particular, you are more likely to hit the target
Linda, by choosing a woman randomly among feminist bank tell ers than from a collection
of bank tellers at large.
Maybe the most insidious fallacy that statistics invite the sophisticated to fall into, is
that of ﬁnding irregularities where there are none and confu se correlations with causality.
In fact the more sophisticated you are, the more fervent your imagination, the greater the
seduction. Maybe one of the most obvious ones are regression s to the mean. If events are
truly independent of each other, the likelihood that a good r un will be followed by a worse
run are greater than not. In fact this almost tautological fa ct remains even if there are
dependencies, provided they are not too pronounced. Good pe rformances may elicit praise
and encouragement, and when followed by disappointing ones (meaning not quite as good),
those are given all kinds of explanations, such as praise may spoil people, or make them
tense and set up expectations which have an inhibiting eﬀect . While bad performances,
which provoke censure, more likely than not will be followed by improvements, which
then can be seen as appropriate reactions to the former. That an initial bad start will
strengthen character and foster a laudable determination t o improve. But of course it is
just an illustration of that performances will center aroun d the mean. If you have ten
heads in the row, it does not mean that the next ﬂip is more like ly to be a tail, it only
means that the next ten ﬂips will be more likely to contain nin e heads or less, which is of
course worse than ten heads, but the ﬁrst statement would be t rue regardless of whether
ten throws have already been made or not, it is only that they s et the benchmark. Going
worse is a fact but the connection is entirely in our minds 9. One may as well argue that the
sequence of ten subsequent throws with a mediocre number of h eads, causes the previous.
Similarly small samples show greater variations than large . In one throw you have either a
head or a tail, zero or one, But in a thousand throws you will ha rdly have a thousand tails
or a thousand throws, Thus when looking for correlations in v oting districts, those will be
far more marked in the small one, and have nothing to do with th e fact that those tend
to be rural and Republican. One may of course always discount obvious cases of spurious
correlation, in medicine this is routinely done by setting u p control groups, still there is
9 Distantly connected to this is the phenomenon of anchoring, that the author disc usses in some detail.
If asked to gauge a number, just being given one, invariably inﬂuences the proc ess, as the number invites
a comparison, as well as a suspicion that it is not entirely arbitrary.
6
always the possibility of non-obvious biases, the kinds of w hich we have no idea of. Thus
the principal objection against setting up statistical tes ts to verify hypotheses: there is
always something we may overlook.
Now the supposed irrationality of economic agents is not ent irely due to an inability
to formally work with probabilities. One may in addition won der to what extent calcula-
tions, conscious and deliberate, subconscious and automat ic, actually enter into decisions.
Of more importance though may be the psychological twists th at the human mind is sub-
jected to. If so, those twists, if properly understood will i n fact not be dismissed as mere
irrationality, but instead be seen as a reﬁned version of it. Rationality is ultimately about
a consistent way of pursuing your priorities, not necessari ly the setting of them. It is as
with axioms, the choice is up to your discretion, but the cons istency is not. It seems to be
a universally accepted maxim that a loss is harder to sustain than a gain, meaning that you
are more likely to accept a small and secure beneﬁt than going for a more uncertain one.
It is known as risk aversion. On the other hand, you do not want a sure loss, than you are
more likely to gamble to avoid it, even at the risk of incurrin g an even greater loss. This
causes the tendency to throw good money after bad. If you have invested a lot of money in
a failing venture, you are reluctant to cut your losses, and i nstead trying to undo damage
by investing even more. This is usually seen as irrational, m eaning, counterproductive. At
least when it does not work. But what works for money does it wo rk for age? Would you
rather settle for a ﬁnal age of say eighty rather than having a go at say a hundred with a
suitable probability? Would you not then hold out for the pos sible rather than to settle
for something deﬁnite? After all knowing a deﬁnite death dat e is more or less the same as
a death sentence.
Another psychological quirk is that equivalent proposals m ay meet with very diﬀerent
responses, depending on wording and even ordering, when the two are being compared,
This is irrational in the sense that proposals in isolation c annot be properly judged. A
may be preferred to B when considered without any comparison , but B may prevail when
you have to make a choice, even if the two are equivalent. You n eed to take in the entire
context. The author talks about framing. As an example, my mo ther told me that she
never felt any disappointment by not winning when she bought the intermittent lottery
ticket. The likelihood of winning is very low, so you do not ex pect it, hence you are not
disappointed when it does not happen. On the other hand, the m ere possibility of a win,
is a pleasant thought, well worth the expenditure of the tick et. Of course this assessment
is purely subjective and the reason why lotteries work. A mor e rational assessment of the
worth of the ticket would take into account the expected valu e. But of course this is not
how the human mind works, as opposed to that of the economic ag ent. Now assume that
the tickets would be free, but whenever you do not win you woul d have an actual loss equal
to the cost of the ticket you were prepared to pay in the ﬁrst pl ace. Would you still not
experience not winning as a disappointment? Is it not easier to accept a voluntary cost
than an involuntary loss, even if the amounts are the same?
Perhaps the most interesting part of the book is the discussi on of the distinction
between the experiencing self and the remembering self, which has existential philosophical
ramiﬁcations that go much beyond the economic corollaries w hich it is meant to explain.
I am thinking of the importance played by say regret in your ec onomic decisions. This
7
forces you to take into account two people, the one at present , and the one in some future,
whose desires may impinge as much on yours now, as yours obvio usly do on his 10.
As noted the distinction is more interesting from a philosop hical point. Who leads
your life really? What is important in life? That you are happ y and have no regrets on
your deathbed, or that you enjoy the moments, even if that enj oyment may be obliterated
by inevitable oblivion? The remembered life sees existence as a sequence of episodes which
should form some coherent narrative. Something has worth if it can be remembered with
pleasure and satisfaction. Thus should you lead you life in s uch a way that it becomes
a gripping biography which will be a pleasure to savor even fo r external readers? The
latter if you think about it, it may strike you as both silly an d chilly, after all are not
many of our most deeply felt emotions, private in the sense th at they cannot be shared
and become universal and oﬃcial. The feeling that you life is your own and no one else
owns it. Yet in fact many moral admonishments take on that vie w. You should lead a life
that is exemplary. People who collect, clearly takes this vi ew of life to ﬁnding its meaning
in its recollection. They actually invest for the future, bu ilding up an accumulation. But
you cannot bring what you collect with you to the grave, the ca sket in which you are put
does not come with additional storage space. This mania for c ollection does of course
not conﬁne itself to material objects and gadgets. It could b e books, when you see with
pleasure how many books you actually will read during your li fe, and every book purchased
will be a saving for future days, and this conversion of time i nto reading, gives meaning to
your life. Or it could be the collection of happy moments, who se real pleasure will reside
more in recollection than actual experience.
As to the diﬀerence between an experienced sensation and one merely recollected, one
may, as the author does, look at pain. Pain is an experience th at only belongs to the actual
moment, as little as you can readily experience the pain of ot hers, save by mere empathy,
you cannot directly experience your own pains of the past. Yo u may recollect the amount
of pain, if not its quality, and this assessment of pain, may c ontradict elementary logic.
The same level of pain may be remembered diﬀerently dependin g on the context. Pain
that you suspect is out to hurt you, becomes intolerable even at low levels, while pain
which is for your good, you are far more easily to accept. Henc e in a sense, all torture is
fundamentally mental not physical. Pain that is extended by a lower level of pain, may
be more acceptable to memory, because it is the average pain, or more generally the total
experience, that will matter, thus you may more easily antic ipate with equanimity a pain
which is actually worse when experienced as well as more sust ained, if the total eﬀect is
seen as more tolerable to memory.
Anyway the distinction between the present self and the futu re one. The one which is
in direct contact with reality and the one which is construct ed, is a most fascinating one.
For one thing, would our memories of episodes be more powerfu l, both as to remembering
10 As to making decisions you will not regret, the secret is, the author informs the reader, is not to put
yourself in the position that you can in retrospect argue that had I but acte d as I could have had, this would
not have happened. So either, when you are engaged in longterm momentous decisi ons, make them very
deliberate, as to convince yourself in the future, that at the time you real ly did not have another option,
or act without any deliberation at all, thus preempting any charge of not hav ing acted on something you
had actually considered.
8
more episodes as well as being able to recall them with more in tensity and vividness,
make up for shorter life-spans? We think that our lives are to o short, that time goes too
quickly, especially as we get older, while we are experienci ng time there actually is no such
diﬀerence, and time itself seems painfully slow. When we loo k back upon an event, it
feels very satisfying that it seems to have happened a long ti me ago. because it gives the
feeling that since then we have had a long life. So much must ha ve happened, so much
must have changed. On the contrary if an event, chronologica lly distant, is felt as if have
happened very recently, we feel cheated. All those years hav e passed and what do I have
to show for it? Nothing seems to have happened, nothing seems to have changed, I have
just squandered precious years which will never come back. S uch considerations cut at the
heart of the human condition. The imagery is somewhat econom ic in nature. There is a
feeling that life is a capital that is given to you, and which y ou can only spend, never add
to. As you grow older, the capital is depleted, the only comfo rt being that you are not
really sure when it will run out. The capital is exchanged for life and experience. While
your prospect diminish, your experience accumulates and gr ows. When you come towards
the end, any slice of time will be more proportionally precio us compared to what you have
left, and what you get out of it will be proportionally insign iﬁcant compared to what you
have already experienced. You pay more and more for getting l ess and less.
February 14, 16, 2014 Ulf Persson: P rof.em , C halm ers U .of Tech., G ¨ oteb org Sweden ulfp@chalmers.se
9
